Cellular Automata (CA) are a class of self-organising systems which are used to study the emergence of complex global behaviours from local interactions. A standard CA consists of a grid of cells which all use the same update rule to detmerine their next state. The update rule is a function of the cell's local neighbourhood. A well-known example is Conway's Game of Life, in which cells take one of two states ("dead" or "alive") and a simple update rule determined by the number of "alive" neighbours leads to interesting, lifelike patterns. Studying CAs may help us understand principles behind self-orgnisation: a major unsolved problem in biology is what algorithm cells implement that enable them to coordinate locally to grow complex anatomical structures.

Unlike traditional CAs, where the update rule is hand-designed, in Neural Cellular Automata (NCA) the update rule is _learned_ by training a neural network with gradient descent. NCAs essentially reverse the process of creating cellular automata: rather than starting with rules and observing emergent collective behaviours, we start with the desired properties of the system and reverse-engineer the rules with deep learning. This enables the discovery of local rules that lead to desired behaviours, such as pattern growth, self-repair and classification.

The NCA architecture consists of two main components: a **perception** mechanism and an **update** network. The perception mechanism determines how each cell senses its local neighbourhood. The update network is a small neural network that takes the perceived neighbourhood and computes a residual update to the cell's state.

Training an NCA begins with initialising the grid (e.g., with a single seed cell or an input image), running the NCA for multiple timesteps with the current update rule, computing a loss between the final state and some target, and backpropagating through time to update the neural network weights of the update rule.

Below, we provide descriptions of the datasets you will be working with. Note that your discovered algorithms may be evaluated on other NCA tasks to test generalization.
